---
id: 15771
title: 'GDC 2014 - Day Four'
date: 2014-03-20T21:44:34+00:00
author: DEADNAME
layout: post
guid: http://www.OLDURL/?p=15771
permalink: /2014/03/20/gdc-2014-day-four/
categories:
  - Events
tags:
  - GDC
---
GDC 2014 is almost complete, four out of five days over.

This was the last full day of the show, since things usually wrap up early on Friday.<!--more-->

### What I did

My day began early with the Unity Educators Breakfast featuring Bob Nicoll, Dave Taylor, and Warren Specter. They talked about their experiences teaching game development to students, and their techniques to get students interested in learning both inside and outside the classroom.

I had some more time to explore the expo floor today, now that I''ve had a chance to scope out places I wanted to talk to yesterday. I haven''t gotten a chance to see them all yet, but I will have one more chance tomorrow.

I was able to meet with some Uruguay indies who are making an awesome game called <a href="https://www.facebook.com/BulletBoyGame" target="_blank">Bullet Boy</a>, a physics action puzzler that immediately got a soft spot in my heart for also being inspired by Donkey Kong style barrel cannons. I recorded an episode of Be Indie Now with them in the hallway. I have not listened to it yet, so I hope it came out well. Between my backpack rig and the sound of the show though it won''t sound as nice as other episodes.

<div>
  Often people hold the biggest parties tonight, but I am not much for the drinking and dancing scene so I headed home early instead.
</div>

### Last day plans

<div>
  I will be hanging out at the Microsoft booth most of the day, and then wondering the show floor right before it closes.Send me a tweet if you''d like to talk and/or meet up!</p> 
  
  <p>
    -DEADNAME
  </p>
</div>