---
id: 15271
title: GDC 2014 – Day Two
date: 2014-03-18T23:46:34+00:00
author: Tobiah
layout: post
guid: http://www.tobiahmarks.com/?p=15271
permalink: /2014/03/18/gdc-2014-day-two/
categories:
  - Events
tags:
  - Alexander Bruce
  - GDC
---
Today was the second day of the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco.

This was the last day of the Independent Games Summit. Normally I get an All Access pass, but for GDC 2014 I will be working the Microsoft booth Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. So this was my last day to go to the lectures this year.

Like yesterday, there were some excellent talks. Many of them continued the theme of post postmortems/notable indies sharing the stories of their development.<!--more-->

### What were the talks about today?

To start off my morning there was a very interesting lecture on Super Time Force’s time traveling mechanic, specifically “Quantum Entanglement” vs. the “Entity Entanglement” system they created for the game. The system they used created paradoxes wasn’t technically “correct”, but it felt right. It was more important the player felt the system was fun, fair, and did what they wanted/expected rather than what would be more realistic or logical.

Later in the day was a postmortem of Badlands, I thought it was very interesting to hear exactly how little money they made on Android/Kindle vs. their iOS versions. They also were one of the top 3 grossing apps on Blackberry, yet they have only had 7000 lifetime downloads on there. Their Windows Phone version will be coming out soon, it will be interesting to see how their numbers compare.

Today also had talks about programming Gone Home (one of my recent favorites), how to create great tutorials from the creator of Threes (in doing so describing his design process), the story of Young Horse (developers of Octodad), and the indie soapbox rants.

### Favorite talk of GDC 2014

By far my favorite talk of GDC was Alexander Bruce’s. He told the story of his amazing game Antichamber that came out early last year. Antichamber is a groundbreaking game that he worked on for many years. The subtitle to his talk says it all, “The story of an overnight success that took 7 years”

The hour-long lecture was full of great messages to aspiring creative people out there. Success is messy, hard, and takes a long time. It wasn’t just that he kept working until he “got lucky”, but he worked hard every day to make opportunities for himself. You only succeed when you don’t make any mistakes. That doesn’t mean he never made mistakes, it means he was self-aware and corrected those mistakes as soon as he could, and only once he did everything right did he get his success.

I hope the GDC vault chooses to release it for free, as they do with some talks from the vault every year, as I would make it required viewing for many indies. Otherwise, it will be a must watch if you have an All Access pass or access to the GDC 2014 Vault when it is available.

### What’s the plan tomorrow?

I’ll be hanging around the Microsoft booth tomorrow morning. After that, I will be wondering around the expo floor talking to people. If you happen to see me (I’ll be wearing the black bad that says “Game Evangelist – Microsoft”) come say hi!

-Tobiah