---
id: 101091
title: GDC 2015 Day Three
date: 2015-03-05T00:31:44+00:00
author: Tobiah
excerpt: |
  Day three of GDC 2015! The first day of the main conference and expo!
  
  Wednesday, GDC 2015 Day Three:
  
  The summits and tutorials are over, and now the main conference has begun. My talk was one of the first ones of the day! It was “Best Practices for Small Studios: Outmaneuver Your Competition”
  
  To read how it went, click the link below!
layout: post
guid: http://www.tobiahmarks.com/?p=101091
permalink: /2015/03/05/gdc-2015-day-three/
categories:
  - Events
tags:
  - GDC
---
Day three of GDC 2015! The first day of the main conference and expo!

## Wednesday, GDC 2015 Day Three

The summits and tutorials are over, and now the main conference has begun. My talk was one of the first ones of the day! It was “[Best Practices for Small Studios: Outmaneuver Your Competition](http://schedule.gdconf.com/session/best-practices-for-small-studios-outmaneuver-your-competition)”

<!--more-->

It went really well! I had lots of people after give me feedback that they liked it. I hope people learned some things. If you missed it, you can always catch it again on the GDC vault next month.

After that, I went to a few more lectures. First I went to a roundtable session about developing games for little to no budget. It was a packed room, and some good discussion.

Next, Eric Zimmerman, one of my favorite GDC speakers, did a new talk called "Game Design Case Studies". He brought three game developers in to present for 15 minutes on one system of their games. It was a great session, and I hope it becomes a regular occurrence each year.

I only had an hour or so to explore the expo floor today. Hopefully tomorrow and the next day I''ll have more of a chance to walk around and talk with people!

Ending the day, of course, I went to the IGF and Game Developers Choice Awards. They are always a highlight for me, and this year was extra great because Tim Schafer hosted again. He is a hilarious host, I hope they bring him back again in a future year.

## Tomorrow

I''ll be doing more of what I did today. Checking out some awesome lectures, exploring the expo floor, and hanging out with cool game developers.

See you then!

-Tobiah