---
id: 101131
title: GDC 2015 Day Four
date: 2015-03-05T23:00:07+00:00
author: DEADNAME
excerpt: |
  Day four of GDC 2015! This will be another short post, as I am tired and ready for some sleep!
  
  Thursday, GDC 2015 Day Four:
  Today I got to go to two sessions, and had more of an opportunity to wonder around the expo floor.
  
  To read what I did, follow on to my blog!
layout: post
guid: http://www.OLDURL/?p=101131
permalink: /2015/03/05/gdc-2015-day-four/
categories:
  - Events
tags:
  - GDC
---
Day four of GDC 2015! This will be another short post, as I am tired and ready for some sleep!

## Thursday, GDC 2015 Day Four

Today I got to go to two sessions, and had more of an opportunity to wonder around the expo floor.
  
<!--more-->

The first session I went to was the GDC Microtalks. This is where a bunch of speakers do rapid fire talks of exactly 20 slides and 5 minutes, 20 seconds in length. They are always on a variety of subjects, usually a rant about something that the speaker is really, really passionate about.

My favorites this year were from Holly Gramazio and the ever prolific Rami Ismail. Check out their talks on the vault if you have access!

The other talk I went to was from my old game design teacher, Stone Librande. His talk this year was called "game < design". He encouraged game designers to think about design in all its forms, not just as it relates to games. There is a world of design theory out there already, is game design really that different than architecture or furniture design? Again, I''d recommend watching it if you can.

On the show floor I got to play a couple games at GDC Play, including the newest version of [Klaus](http://www.OLDURL/2014/12/be-indie-now-41/) and a bunch of games from the University of Utah.

## Tomorrow

Tomorrow is the last day of GDC 2015! I am most excited for the experimental game play sessions. That has always been the most inspiring for me in years past.

-DEADNAME